Add Term: SQL Commands UNION (#676)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/commands/terms/union/union.md

---
Title: 'UNION'
Description: 'Allows the combination of the results of two or more SELECT queries.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Database'
  - 'Queries'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'SQLite'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
  - 'paths/design-databases-with-postgresql'
---

> The `UNION` command allows for the combination of the results of two or more [`SELECT`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/select) queries. When two queries with the same number of columns are joined together with the `UNION` command, the result is a single result that is a combination of the individual results of each query. `UNION` is placed between the two queries being combined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UNION` command allows for the combination of the results of two or more [`SELECT`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/select) queries. When two queries with the same number of columns are joined together with the `UNION` command, the result is a combination of the returned result from both queries. `UNION` is placed between the two queries being combined.
```
Seemed like this could be cleared up a bit. 'Results' seemed repeated too many times.

The combined queries can be any valid `SELECT` statements, including [`WHERE`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/where), [`GROUP BY`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/group-by), or [`HAVING`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/having) clauses. The only restriction is that the number of columns returned for each query is the same, and the corresponding columns of each query have data types that are compatible with the columns in the first query. The result set will use the column names of the first query, ignoring column names from each subsequent query.

> The `UNION` command has a `UNION ALL` option. The difference between `UNION` and `UNION ALL` is that `UNION` will drop any duplicated rows in the result, whereas `UNION ALL` will simply append the complete results of one query to another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `UNION` command has a `UNION ALL` option. The difference between `UNION` and `UNION ALL` is that `UNION` will drop any duplicated rows in the result, whereas `UNION ALL` will append the complete results of one query to another.
```

I would replace the text on line # 37 with this text to sort of connect/transition between the two snippets in the "Syntax" section.

## Syntax

> Return all rows from `table1` and `table2`, dropping any duplicated rows:

Reviewer 2: I recommend moving this text below the snippet.

```sql
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table1
UNION
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table2
```

Simply append all the rows from `table2` to all the rows from `table1`.

```sql
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table1
UNION ALL
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table2

> ```

Reviewer 2: Could we include a brief "Example" section with a snippet? (similar to the one in [SQL Commands: `INSERT`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/insert)

---
Title: 'UNION'
Description: 'Combines the results of two or more SELECT queries.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Database'
  - 'Queries'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'SQLite'
CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn-sql'
>   - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
>   - 'paths/design-databases-with-postgresql'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
```

We should use two (2) links for the `CatalogContent` and fwiw the [paths/analyze-data-with-sql](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/analyze-data-with-sql) link includes a section called "Joining Multiple Tables" and creating tables .

---

The `UNION` command combines the results of two or more [`SELECT`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/select) queries. When two queries with the same number of columns are joined together with the `UNION` command, the combined results from both queries are returned. `UNION` is placed between the two queries being combined.

The combined queries can be any valid `SELECT` statements, including [`WHERE`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/where), [`GROUP BY`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/group-by), or [`HAVING`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/commands/having) clauses. The only restriction is that the number of columns returned for each query is the same, and the corresponding columns of each query have data types that are compatible with the columns in the first query. The result set will use the column names of the first query, ignoring column names from each subsequent query.

`UNION` will eliminate any duplicate rows from the result.

## Syntax

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table1
UNION
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table2
```

Returns all rows from `table1` and `table2`, dropping any duplicated rows.

The `UNION` command also has a `UNION ALL` option. The difference between `UNION` and `UNION ALL` is that where `UNION` will drop any duplicated rows in the result, `UNION ALL` will append the complete results of one query to another regardless of duplication.

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table1
UNION ALL
SELECT column1, column2, column2 ... columnN
FROM table2
```

> Appends all the rows from `table2` to all the rows from `table1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the rows from `table2` are appended with all of the rows from `table1`.
```
